README file for Handwritten Digits Classification Program


Introduction

This program is designed to classify handwritten digits using various machine learning algorithms. The program uses the load_digits() function from sklearn.datasets to load the dataset, which contains 8x8 images of handwritten digits from 0 to 9.


Installation

Ensure that Python 3 is installed on your computer.
Install the required libraries using the following command:
!pip install numpy pandas scikit-learn matplotlib
Download and save the program file "handwritten_digits_classification.py" on your computer.


Usage

Open the command prompt or terminal on your computer.
Navigate to the directory where the program file is saved.
Run the program using the following command:
python handwritten_digits_classification.py


How the program works

The program first loads the dataset using load_digits() function from sklearn.datasets. It then splits the dataset into training and testing sets using train_test_split() function from sklearn.model_selection.

The program uses four different machine learning algorithms to classify the digits:

Support Vector Machines (SVM)
Decision Trees
Random Forest
K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN)

For each algorithm, the program trains the classifier using the training set and then makes predictions on the testing set. The program then calculates and displays the classification report, confusion matrix, and accuracy score for each classifier.


Results

The program displays the results of each classifier in separate subplots. The top row of subplots shows four random images from the training set, with the true label of each image displayed as the title. The bottom row of subplots shows the predictions made by the classifier for the same images, with the predicted label displayed as the title.

The program also displays the classification report and confusion matrix for each classifier. Finally, the program displays the accuracy score of each classifier.


Conclusion

This program demonstrates the use of different machine learning algorithms for classifying handwritten digits. It can be used as a starting point for building more advanced image recognition systems.
